So we did take a look at these permissions
but there's one thing I wanna highlight
or one thing I also wanna talk about.
And that is this special secret which I'm using here.
This is a secret I actually haven't added.
If I take a look at my repository here,
you will notice that under secrets for my actions
I have no secrets in this repository.
And I also don't have an account-wide GitHub token secret.
So where is this special secret coming from?
Well, it's generated automatically by GitHub.
Because here, for assigning this request to GitHub's API,
we must authenticate the request.
Otherwise, anyone could be sending a request to this API
to edit or delete our issues.
To make sure that's not happening, we must authenticate
the request by attaching a token to it.
And this is a token automatically generated by GitHub,
which is available in the jobs of this workflow,
and which is only valid until our jobs are done.
So the token will be deleted by GitHub
once our job's executed.
It's a very short lift token that's only valid
as long as our jobs are running here.
But this token can then be attached to requests
being sent to GitHub's API to authenticate the request
and perform certain actions.
And it's actually the scope of this token
that's being set with those permissions.
So depending on which permissions you set here,
this token grants more or less access rights.
For example, if I only grant read access to issues here,
I would be able to get information about an issue
but I should not be able to add a new label.
So here, if I change my permissions
and I now say, read only permissions,
and I push this, we will see
that if I open another new issue
where I add my title a bug,
my workflow will run but it will actually not succeed
as you will see in a couple of seconds.
So here it's running and if we take a look at this
permissions example workflow here,
we will see that eventually it fails
because this request here failed.
And it failed because this token which was attached
to the request for authenticating that request
does not have the right permissions attached to it.
This token does not include right permissions to issues.
So it's actually the permissions built into that token,
you could say, that are being set
with that permissions configuration key here.
And here we need right to give that token
appropriate permissions so that requests
to which the token is attached to do succeed.
And by the way, permissions don't just matter
if you're sending requests to the GitHub API manually
and if you're attaching this token manually.
We haven't seen this GitHub token secret
throughout this course
but under the hood, we already used it a lot.
Because for example also when we checked out our code
in other examples in this course,
then we, of course, interacted With GitHub's API.
We sent a request to GitHub to get the code
of this repository.
And that only worked because under the hood,
this action does check out action, used that token
for authenticating the request.
So if I would add a permission to such a job
where I only grant right access to issues,
and therefore as you learned all our permissions
are denied out of the box, this job wouldn't work anymore
because checking out the code wouldn't work anymore.
So this GitHub token secret whilst being used all the time
already in this course, now we're just seeing it
because that's the first time I'm actually sending a request
to GitHub's API manually.
But all these actions which also used GitHub's API
under the hood also used to this token secret,
and therefore all the could have been regulated
with Permissions set by us.
So setting permissions can be a good idea.
And in the official documentation,
you learn which permissions you can set
and you learn a bit more about these permissions.
You'll also learn that you do assign permissions
to get up token in the end by adding this permissions key,
no matter if you're using it on workflow or job level.
But I also mentioned that out of the box
if you don't add this permissions key,
your workflow and its jobs has quite permissive permissions.
And how permissive is also something you find
in the official docs under security guides.
There, you'll learn that out of the box with default access,
which is quite permissive, you basically got
read write access to almost all areas here.
There are just two exceptions here
where you have no or only read access.
But besides that, you have full read and write access
to all these areas and therefore out of the box,
your workflows and jobs can basically do anything.
But you can't change that default to be more restricted
so that you're then only able to read metadata
about the repository and access the contents
of the repository so that you can, for example,
check out code.
And to enable this more restrictive default,
all you have to do is go to the settings of your repository.
And then there under Actions, General,
you get various action-related settings.
And here at the bottom, at least at the point of time
I'm recording this, you could switch
to this more restrictive option here
so that out of the box you only have read permissions
to the contents of the repository and you would,
for example, not be able to interact with issues.
So that is something you could do
to switch that default and be more restrictive
for all your workflows in this repository.